Brief History and Introduction:
A great computer scientist named “Dennis Ritchie” created a programming
language called 'C' at the Bell Laboratories in 1972. It was created from
'ALGOL', 'BCPL' and 'B'
programming languages which were created before ‘C’. 'C' programming
language contains all the features of these languages and many more
additional concepts and features
that make it unique from other languages.
'C' is a powerful programming language and it is strongly associated with the
UNIX operating system and even most of the UNIX operating system is coded
in 'C'. Initially
at starting 'C' programming was limited to the UNIX operating system, but as it
started spreading around the world, it became commercial, and many
compilers were released
for cross-platform systems.

Now a day’s 'C' runs under a variety of operating systems and hardware
platforms. As it was started evolving, many different versions of the language
were released.
In past, At times it became difficult for the developers to keep up with the
latest version as the systems were running under the older versions. To assure
that it will
remain standard, American National Standards Institute (ANSI) defined a
commercial standard for 'C' language in 1989. Later, it was approved by the
International
Standards Organization (ISO) in 1990. 'C' programming language is also called
as 'ANSI C'.
Languages such as C++/Java were developed from 'C'. These languages are
widely used in various technologies and applications. Thus, 'C' forms a base for
many other
programming languages that are currently in use.
Strength of C programming language:
C is a powerful and more efficient language as it contains many data types and
operators to perform all kind of operations. It is widely used in embedded
systems also.
C is very flexible or we can say it is machine independent that helps you to run
your code on any machine without making any change or just a few changes in
your code.
A crucial ability of C is to extend itself. It has its own sets of built in functions in
the C library, therefore it becomes easy to use these functions. We can also
add our own functions to the C standard library and makes code simpler.
C is structure based. It means that the issues or complex problems can be
divided into smaller blocks or functions. This modular structure of ‘C’ helps in
easier and
simpler testing and maintenance.
'C' contains 32 keywords, various data types and a set of powerful built-in
functions that make programming very efficient for user.

C is a middle level programming language that means it supports high-level
programming as well low level programming language. It supports the use of
kernels and drivers
in low programming and also supports system software applications in the high
level programming language.
The use of algorithms and data structures in C has made program
computations very fast and smooth. Thus, the C language can be used in the
complex calculations and
operations such as MATLAB.
C language is case-sensitive which means lowercase and uppercases letters are
treated differently in C language.

C provides dynamic memory allocation that allows you to allocate memory at
run time. For example, if you don’t know how much memory required by
objects in your
program, you can still run a program in C and assign the memory at the same
time.
C is very portable language. Different components of windows, UNIX, and Linux
systems are written in C and many other complex programs like Oracle
database, Git,
python interpreter and more also written in C.
C is a general purpose language, so we can use C for game design, graphics,
enterprise applications etc.
C is a base for the computer programming. If you know 'C’ then it is easy for
you to easily grasp the knowledge of the other programming languages that
uses the concepts of 'C'.