Importance of C programming language over other programming languages:
C is a middle level programming language developed by Dennis Ritchie and
Brian Kernighan in 1972 at the AT&T Bell Labs in the USA.

The objective of its development was in the context of the re-design of the
UNIX operating system so that it can be used on multiple computers.
This language is now 49 years old but still its importance hasn’t reduced over
the course of time and it is recommended for all the new programmers to start
with C.
As a middle-level language, C combines the features of both high-level and
low-level languages.
It is robust language whose rich setup of built in functions and operator can be
used to write any complex program.
It can be used for low-level programming, such as scripting for drivers and
kernels and it also supports functions of high-level programming
languages, such as scripting for software applications etc.
C is a structured programming language which allows a complex program to
be broken into simpler programs called functions.
It also allows free movement of data across these functions.Various features of
C including direct access to machine level hardware APIs,
the presence of C compilers, deterministic resource use and dynamic memory
allocation make C language an optimum choice for scripting applications and
drivers of embedded systems.
C language is case-sensitive which means lowercase and uppercase letters are
treated differently.
C is highly portable and is used for scripting system applications which form a
major part of Windows, UNIX, and Linux operating system.
C is a general-purpose programming language and can efficiently work on
enterprise applications, games, graphics, and applications requiring
calculations, etc.
C language has a rich library which provides a number of built-in functions. It
also offers dynamic memory allocation.
Program written in C are efficient due to several variety of data types and
powerful operators.

C implements algorithms and data structures swiftly, facilitating faster
computations in programs. This has enabled the use of C in applications
requiring higher degrees of calculations like MATLAB and Mathematica.
The C compiler combines the capabilities of an assembly language with the
feature of high level language.
Therefore it is well suited for writing both system software and business
package.
There are only 32 keywords; several standard functions are available which
can be used for developing program.
C is portable language; this means that C programs written for one computer
system can be run on another system, with little or no modification.
C language is well suited for structured programming, this requires user to
think of a problems in terms of function or modules or block.
A collection of these modules make a program debugging and testing easier.