Strength of c programming language over other languages and reason for its
relevance.
good reasons for that. Many of the C projects that exist today were started
decades ago.
The UNIX operating system’s development started in 1969, and its code was
rewritten in C in
1972. The C language was actually created to move the UNIX kernel code from
assembly to a
higher level language, which would do the same tasks with fewer lines of code.
Oracle database development started in 1977, and its code was rewritten from
assembly to C
in 1983. It became one of the most popular databases in the world.
In 1985 Windows 1.0 was released. Although Windows source code is not
publicly available,
it’s been stated that its kernel is mostly written in C, with some parts in
assembly. Linux
kernel development started in 1991, and it is also written in C. The next year, it
was released
under the GNU license and was used as part of the GNU Operating System. The
GNU

operating system itself was started using C and Lisp programming languages,
so many of its
components are written in C.
But C programming isn’t limited to projects that started decades ago, when
there weren’t as
many programming languages as today. Many C projects are still started today;
there are
some
How is the World Powered by C?
Despite the prevalence of higher-level languages, C continues to empower the
world. The
following are some of the systems that are used by millions and are
programmed in the C
language.Linux is also written mostly in C, with some parts in assembly. About
97 percent of
the world’s 500 most powerful supercomputers run the Linux kernel. It is also
used in many
personal computers.
Mac Mac computers are also powered by C, since the OS X kernel is written
mostly in C. Every
program and driver in a Mac, as in Windows and Linux computers, is running
on a C powered kernel.
Mobile
iOS, Android and Windows Phone kernels are also written in C. They are just
mobile
adaptations of existing Mac OS, Linux and Windows kernels. So smartphones
you
use every day are running on a C kernel.
Databases.

The world’s most popular databases, including Oracle Database, MySQL, MS
SQL
Server, and PostgreSQL, are coded in C (the first three of them actually both in
C and
C++).
Databases are used in all kind of systems: financial, government, media,
entertainment, telecommunications, health, education, retail, social networks,
web,
and the like.
3D Movies
3D movies are created with applications that are generally written in C and
C++.
Those applications need to be very efficient and fast, since they handle a huge
amount of data and do many calculations per second. The more efficient they
are, the
less time it takes for the artists and animators to generate the movie shots,
and the
more money the company saves.
Embedded Systems Imagine that you wake up one day and go shopping. The
alarm clock that wakes you
up is likely programmed in C. Then you use your microwave or coffee maker to
make
your breakfast. They are also embedded systems and therefore are probably
programmed in C. You turn on your TV or radio while you eat your breakfast.
Those
are also embedded systems, powered by C. When you open your garage door
with the
remote control you are also using an embedded system that is most likely
programmed in C.

Then you get into your car. If it has the following features, also programmed in
C:
automatic transmission
tire pressure detection systems
sensors (oxygen, temperature, oil level, etc.)
memory for seats and mirror settings.
dashboard display
anti-lock brakes
automatic stability control
cruise control
climate control